
# Q1
**The mapping of a logical address to a physical address is done in hardware by___.**

Memory managment unit
✔️


# Q2
**In a dynamically linked library _\_\_.**

A stub is included in the image for each library-routine reference
✔️
# Q3


**An address generated by a CPU is referred to as a \_\_\_\_.**

physical address
❌
_logical address prolly cos physical is only with MMU_
# Q4

**Consider a logical address with a page size of 8 KB. How many bits must be used to   
represent the page offset in the logical address?**


13✔️

# Q5

**Consider a logical address with 18 bits used to represent an entry in a conventional   
page table. How many entries are in the conventional page table?**

1048576
❌

_just stay smart and do the normal thing, for entries, only deal with the actual memory address, no control bits required_

# Q6

**What is the context switch time, associated with swapping, if a disk drive with a   
transfer rate of 2 MB/s is used to swap out part of a program that is 200 KB in size?   
Assume that no seeks are necessary and that the average latency is 15 ms.**

None of the above
❌

_Im just stupid, forgot that transferring shit actually takes time lmao, 200KB = 1/10th 2MB so 0.1*1000 + 15ms = 115ms
****

# Q2
**\[Part 1\] Consider a paging system with the page table stored in memory.   
(a) If a memory reference takes 200 nanoseconds, how long does a paged memory   
reference take?**


200ns + 200ns = 400ns
✔️

**Suppose we have associative registers where finding a page-table entry (if   
present) takes zero time, and which contains 75% of all page-table references. What   
will be the effective memory reference time in this case?**

200 + 0.25\*200 = 250ns
✔️

**Suppose the time to find an entry in associative registers is 2 ns. What will be the   
access time?**

202 + 0.25\*200 = 252ns
❌
_only for the 75% will it actually look I guess_

# Q3

**\[Virtual  Memory\].  Consider  a  demand-paged  computer  system  where  the  degree  of   
multiprogramming  is  currently  fixed  at  4.  The  system  was  recently  measured  to  determine   
utilization  of  CPU  and  the  paging  disk.  The  results  are  one  of  the  following  alternatives.  For   
each case, what is happening?   
a. CPU utilization 13 percent; disk utilization 97 percent   
b. CPU utilization 87 percent; disk utilization 3 percent   
c. CPU utilization 13 percent; disk utilization 3 percent**

a) High rate of page faults (prolly thrashing) occuring since disk utilization high✔️
b) Low rate of page faults since low disk utilization and high CPU usage which could mean that there may be some busy waiting occuring for some processes✔️ _at least one CPU intensive program running_
c) Low rate of page faults and low rate of CPU usage so could indicate high performance or some processes sleeping often✔️
_Underused system with spare capacity_